sudo   -- superuser do, used to perform administrative or root permissions
pwd    -- used to find the current working directory.
cd     -- navigate through the linux files and directories.
ls     -- lists files and directories.
cat    -- lists, combines and writes file content to the standard output.
cp     -- copy files or directories and their content.
mv     -- move and rename files and directories.
mkdir   - create 1 or more directories at once.
rmdir   - permanently delete an empty directory.
rm     -- deletes files within a directory.
touch   - finds file in a database.
find   -- search for files within a specific directory.
grep   -- lets you find a word by searching through all the text in a specific file.
df     -- reports thee system's disk space usage.
du     -- checks how much space a file or directory takes up.
head   -- allows you to view the first 10 lines of a text
tail   -- displays the last 10 llines of a file.
diff   -- compares two contents of a file line by line and displays the part that do not match.
tar    -- archives multiple files into a TAR file. 
chmod   - modifies a file or directory read, write and execute permissions.
chown   - let you change the ownership of a file or directory.
jobs   -- displays all the running processes along with their status.
kill   -- terminates an unresponsive program manually.
ping   -- checks whether a network or a server is reachable.
wget   -- lets you download files from the internet
uname   - prints detail information about your linux system and hardware.
top    -- displays real-time view of current system running processes.
history   list up to 500 previously executed commands.
man    -- provides user manual of any command.
echo   -- displays a line of text using standard output.
zip    -- compress your files into a ZIP file.
hostname   displays system's hostname
useradd    create a new account
user del   delete a user account
apt-get    tool for handling Advanced Package Tool libraries
nano   -- allows users to edit and manage files via a text editor.
alias   - allows you to create a shortcut with same functionality as a command.
su     -- allows you to run a program as a different user.
htop   -- interactive program that monitors system resources in real time.
ps     -- produces a snapshot of all running processes in your system
